hi this is part of a series about the
paper concrete problems in nai safety
which looks at preventing possible
accidents in AI systems last time we
talked about avoiding negative side
effects and how one way of doing that is
to create systems that try not to have
too much impact to not change the
environment around them too much
this video is about a slightly more
subtle idea than penalizing impact
penalizing influence so suppose we have
a robot it's a cleaning robot so it's
got a mop and a bucket and an apron I'm
trying something new here there with me
so the robot knows that there's a mess
over here that it needs to clean up but
in between the robot and the mess is the
server room which is full of expensive
and delicate equipment now if an AI
system doesn't want to have a large
impact it won't make plans that involve
tipping the bucket of water over the
service but maybe we can be safer than
that we might want our robot to not even
want to bring the bucket of water into
the server room to have a preference for
going around it instead we might want it
to think something like not only do I
not want to have too big of an impact on
my surroundings I also don't want to put
myself in a situation where it would be
easy for me to have a big impact on my
surroundings how do we formalize that
idea well perhaps we can use information
theory the paper talks about an
information theoretic metric called
empowerment which is a measure of the
maximum possible mutual information
between the agents potential future
actions and the potential future State
that's equivalent to the capacity of the
information channel between the agents
actions and the environment ie the rate
that the agents actions transmit
information into the environment
Manen bits the more information an agent
is able to transfer into their
environment with their actions the more
control they have over their environment
the more empowered the agent is so if
you're stuck inside a solid locked box
your empowerment is more or less zero
none of the actions you can take will
transmit much information into the world
outside the box but if you have the key
to the box your empowerment is much
higher because now you can take actions
that will have effects on the world at
large you've got options people have
used empowerment as a reward for
experimental AI systems and it makes
them do some interesting things like
picking up keys avoiding walls
even things like balancing an inverted
pendulum or a bicycle you don't have to
tell it to keep the bike balanced it
just learns that if the bike falls over
the agent actions will have less control
over the environment so it wants to keep
the bike upright so empowerment is a
pretty neat metric because it's very
simple but it captures something that
humans and other intelligent agents are
likely to want we want more options more
freedom more capabilities more influence
more control over our environment and
maybe that's something we don't want our
AI systems to what maybe we want to say
clean up that mess but try not to gain
too much control or influence over your
surroundings don't have too much
empowerment that could make the robot
sink if I bring this bucket of water
into the server room
I'll have the option to destroy the
service so I'll go around to avoid that
empowerment okay so now we're at that
part of the video what's wrong with this
why might it not work pause the video
and take a second to think well there
are a few problems one thing is that
because it's measuring information we're
really measuring precision of control
rather than magnitude of impact as an
extreme example suppose you've got your
robot in a room and the only thing it
has access to is a big button which if
pressed will blow up the moon that
actually only counts as one bit of
empowerment the buttons either pressed
or not pressed the moon is exploded or
not two choices so one bit of
information one bit of empowerment on
the other hand if the robot has an
ethnic cable that's feeding out lots of
detailed debug information about
everything the robot does and that's all
being logged somewhere that's loads of
information transfer loads of mutual
information with the environment so
loads of empowerment the robot cares way
more about unplugging the debug cables
than anything to do with the button and
then you have another possible problem
which is perverse incentives okay so
this button is only one bit of
empowerment nowhere near as big a deal
as the debug cable but the robot still
cares about it to some extent and wants
to avoid putting itself in this
situation where it can plow up the moon
however if it finds itself already in a
situation
it has one bit of empowerment because of
this button the easiest way to reduce
that is by pressing the button once the
buttons press to the moon is blown up
the button doesn't work anymore so the
robot then has basically zero bits of
empowerment it's just in a box with an
unconnected button and now it's content
but it's managed to make itself safe it
finally has no influence over the world
so yeah in this admittedly contrived
scenario an empowerment reducing robot
will unplug its debug cable and then
blow up smooth that's not safe behavior
what did we think this might be a good
idea well it just makes the point that
even very simple information theoretic
metrics can describe interesting
abstract properties like influence over
the environment so maybe doing something
a little bit cleverer than just
penalizing empowerment might actually be
useful a more sophisticated metric a
better architecture around it you know
there could be some way to make this
work so this is an area that's probably
worth looking into by AI safety
researchers so that's all for now next
thing in the paper is multi agent
approaches which should be really
interesting make sure to subscribe and
hit the bell if you want to be notified
when that's out also make sure you're
subscribed to computer fault because I'm
probably going to make some new videos
there as well since some of the multi
agent stuff is closely related to the
stop button problem that I already
talked about so it might be nice to put
those together thanks for watching I
hope to see you next time in this video
I want to thank Eastern flicked who
supported me on patreon sinb April thank
you and thank you again to all of my
wonderful patreon supporters all of
these people I've been setting up a room
in my house to be a full time studio
I might make a behind-the-scenes video
about that soon oh and I've got these
pictures that I drew while making this
video which I have no use for now does
anyone want them got the incense weird
sunglasses but yeah I can probably post
them to support it any one more
100 it's time click I was close